.tp 5mm 6mm
.*****************************************
.kp on
:SWISS10.
:FED.
4. BS mandates:SKRSLUT.
.sp 3mm
:SWISS8.
:FED.
4.1 Effect of BS mandates
:SKRSLUT.
.br
When giving a BS mandate, the customer authorises the creditor to collect
payments from the customer s account on the payment date specified by the
creditor.
.sp 3mm
:SWISS8.
:FED.
4.2 Giving BS mandates
:SKRSLUT.
.br
The customer may give a BS mandate in one of the following ways:
.br
.of 5mm
*¤The customer may give a BS mandate to a creditor, who will register the
mandate with &NETS.
























pay his or her creditor in another way..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on:SWISS8.:FED.4.4 Change of account number:SKRSLUT..brIf the customer wishes to change the account number registered in the BSmandate, the customer must contact &BANKNAVN...sp 5mm.kp off.kp on:SWISS10.:FED.5. Prenotification in Betalingsservice:SKRSLUT..sp 3mm:SWISS8.:FED.5.1 The Betalingsservice prenotification:SKRSLUT..brIf payments fall due the following month, the customer will receiveone or more Betalingsservice prenotifications..brThe customer will receive his or her prenotification electronically and/orin print as agreed with &BANKNAVN...br
If the 
custome
r has 
opted fo
r ele
ctronic prenotification only
, thecust
ome
r must read clause 6 carefully..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on:FED.5.2 When will th
e customer receive the prenotification?:SKRSLU
T..brIf
 paymen
ts fal
l due the
 foll
owing month, the customer will receive
 theprint
ed pren
otificat
ion b
efore the beginning of the month subject
 toregula
r p
ostal delivery service..sp 3mm.kp off.kp onIf the customer has opte
d for electronic prenotification, informationa
bou
t the following month s payments will be available in his or heronline ban
king system and/or his or her elect
ron
ic mailbox before thebeginning of the month..sp 3mm



















.kp off.kp on:FED.5.3 Contents of the prenotification:SKRSLUT..brThe prenotification specifies the amount, payment date, creditor's nameand payment details that make it easy for the customer to identify thepayment..sp 3mm.kp off.kp onAdditional documents with information from the creditor may be enclosedwith the prenotification..sp 3mm.kp off.kp onElectronic payment information matches that on the printedprenotification..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on:FED.5.4 The prenotification as an invoice:SKRSLUT..brThe Betalingsservice prenotification and electronic payment informationmay serve 
as an 
invoi
ce..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on:FED.5.5 Cop
y of prin
ted
 prenotifications:SKRSLUT..brThe customer may ask &BANKNAVN. for copies
 ofprenotifications. &BANKNAVN. will be able to provide a copy in thet
ransacti
on year
 and th
e foll
owing five years..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on&BANKNAVN. will inform the custome
r of the charge for this 
service
 onrequ
est..s
p 5mm.kp off.kp on:SWISS10.:FED.6. Special rules on electr
onic payment inf
ormatio
n.sp 3m
m




























:SWISS8.:FED.6.1 Agreement on electronic payment information:SKRSLUT..brThe customer must make an agreement with &BANKNAVN. if the customer wantsto receive electronic payment information only..sp 3mm.kp off.kp onIf the customer later decides that he og she would like to receiveprinted prenotifications, thecustomer must amend the agreement with&BANKNAVN. accordingly.Termination of the customer's online banking agreement will automaticallyterminate the agreement on electronic payment information. Instead, thecustomer will receive printed Betalingsservice prenotifications, pro
vided
that the BS debtor agreement has not been termi
nated..sp
 3m
m.kp off.kp on:FED.6.2 The customer's obligations in connection with elec
tronic paymentinformation:SKRSLUT..brIf the cus
tomer h
ave opt
ed for
 electronic information only, the customer isresponsible for check
ing that he or she has actually received suchinformation. The custo
mer must contact &BANKN
AVN. immediately if thecustomer has not received the electronic payment i
nformation the customerexpected at the beginning of the month or if the
 customer has found errorsin his or her equipment preventing the customer
 from receiving  the paymentinformation electronicall
y. &BAN
KNAVN. 
will r
esend
 payment informationelectronically or in print..sp 3mm.kp off.kp onI
f the custo
mer fails
 to
 contact &BANKNAVN. immediately, the customer mayforfeit the option of refu
sing a payment, see clause 8.1. The customer isresponsible for ens
uring that his or her own equipment is set up toreceive electronic p
ayment information. The customer is also liable iffailure to access the i
nformation is due to his or her telecommunicationsoperator or Internet ser
vice provider..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on:FED.6.3 Printed version:SKRSLUT..brThe c
ustomer may ask &BANKNAVN. for a printed version of electronic payment


















information. &BANKNAVN. will be able to provide the customer with a printedcopy in the transaction year and the following five years. &BANKNAVN. willinform the customer of the charge for this service on request..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on:FED.6.4 Access to electronic payment information:SKRSLUT..brThe customer's online banking system and/or his or her electronic mailboxwill as a minimum store electronic payment information from the monthpayment is made and for a period of at least 13 months after such payment..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on&BANKNAVN. may inform the customer of the period of time the electronicpayment information is stored in his or her &WEB
SYSNAVN.. The customer'selectronic mailbox provider may inform the custome
r which time limitapplies to information in his or her mailbox
..sp 3m
m.kp of
f.kp o
nIf t
he customer wants to save electronic payment
 informat
ion
 beyond thisperiod, &BANKNAVN. and/or electronic mailbox provider may inf
orm thecustomer of the various saving and printing options available 
to thecustomer. They may also inform the customer of what to do if the cus
tomerch
anges b
ank..s
p 5mm.kp off.kp on:SWISS10.:FED.7. Payment execution.sp 3mm:SWISS8.:FED
.7.1 Consent to payment execution:SKRSLUT..brWhen the customer gives a B
S mandate to a creditor, the customer consentsto the execution of pa
yments under the agreement. The customer may 
revokeh
is or h
er con
sent by cancelling the BS mandate (see clause 10.1) orby enforcing his o
r her right to refuse or request a refund of a payment inaccordance 
with the provisions set out in clause 8.1..sp 3mm.kp off.kp onIf no 
valid BS mandate exists, the customer may dispute payments, seeclause 9.























.sp 3mm.kp off.kp on:FED.7.2 Funds in the customer's account:SKRSLUT..brThe customer's account must hold sufficient funds at the payment date. Ifthe funds in the customer's account are insufficient to meet all paymentsthat fall due on a payment date, &BANKNAVN. is entitled to return thesepayments in accordance with the provisions set out in clause.if &U'&WEBPRIERH eq E.th  9..el 8.3..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on:FED.7.3 Payment execution date:SKRSLUT..brA payment is debited to the customer's account on the payment datespecified by the creditor..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on:FED.7.4 Specifica
tion of
 payme
nt da
te:SKRSLUT..brThe creditor must spe
cify the 
pay
ment date in accordance with thecustomer's agreement. The customer and hi
s or her creditor must agree onchanges to payment dates..sp 3mm.kp off.kp
 on:FED.7.5 Payment and receipt:SKRSLUT..brCollection of payments throu
gh Betalingsservice will discharge the customerfrom his or h
er payment obligation 
to his 
or her c
reditor
.An acc
ount s
tatem
ent specifying the payment
 is consi
der
ed evidence ofexecution. This does not apply, however, if the paym
ent is subsequentlyrefunde
d or re
turned 
by &BA
NKNAV
N...sp 3mm.kp off.kp onIf the cus
tomer wan
ts 
a separate receipt for a payment executed during thepast 15 month
s, the customer must contact &BANKNAVN..


















&BANKNAVN. will inform the customer of the charge for this service onrequest..sp 3mm.kp off.kp on:FED.7.6 Maximum execution time:SKRSLUT..brThe maximum total execution time is one banking day..sp 5mm.kp off











